                     CAUTION
                    Glacier Bay

Salt water and land areas in Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve 
are administered by the National Park Service, U.S. Department of 
the interior. Federal regulations applicable in National Parks and Monuments 
govern the area.
Due to tides and winds, ice conditions in upper Glacier Bay can change
drastically in a few hours or overnight. Anchorages should be carefully
selected. Fog is frequent, particularly in late summer.
Permits are required for entry into Glacier Bay June 1- Aug. 31 Special
regulations may be in effect May 1 - Sep. 30. Boaters may contact KWM-20 
Bartlett Cove on VHF channel 16 for permits, latest ice conditions, weather
reports, and other information.
Ocean liners and other vessels cruise the length of the bay daily.
Care must also be taken for backcountry users in kayaks, which frequent the
area.
Regulations for Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve are contained
in the U.S. Coast Pilot.

                     CAUTION
                Whales and Wildlife

The U.S. National Park Service advises that Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve is 
involved in a management program to minimize the impact of motor vessels on
humpback whales. Motor vessels are prohibited from operating within 0.25 nautical miles 
of humpback whales. Motor vessels may not alter course for the purpose of approaching
a whale which is within 0.5 nautical miles. Special regulations direct vessels while in 
waters frequented by humpback whales, an endangered species.
Pets are not permitted in the backcountry. Certain islands with sea bird colonies
are closed to foot traffic during the nesting season.
Hunting is not permitted within the boundaries of Glacier Bay National Park. Sport 
fishing is permitted in accordance with Alaska State fishing regulations.
Mariners are encouraged to read the information board at the U.S. National Park
Service dock in Bartlett Cove or contact KWM-20 Bartlett Cove on VHF channel 16 for 
current regulations and information.
Regulations for Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve are contained in the 
U.S. Coast Pilot.